Update Working with AI APIs > OpenAI API Endpoints lesson for Gemini changes (#12)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: working-with-openai/open-ai-api-endpoints.md

# Text Completion Endpoint Requests and responses

## Goals

Now that we know a little about AI models, let's learn about the text completion endpoint we will be using. We will be working with the `generateContent` method provided by the `gemini-1.5-flash` model.

Our goals for this lesson are to:
- Learn about the structure of requests and responses to Google Gemini's `/v1beta/models/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent` endpoint

## Anatomy of an Endpoint

> The full URL that we have been making `POST` requests to from Postman is:

Author: ```suggestion
The full URL that we have been using to make `POST` requests from Postman is:
```

```
https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta/models/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent?key=$GOOGLE_API_KEY
```
From our prior learning, we should be able to recognize different parts of the URL, even if we don't know exactly what they're doing. Let's take a closer look at each part of the URL:
|  <div style="min-width:200px;">Part of URL</div>  | Purpose |
| ----------- | ------- |
| `generativelanguage.googleapis.com` | The domain hosting the API |
| `/v1beta` | Used to identify the version of the API being used |
| `/models` | Identifies that we want to access a `models` resource |
| `/gemini-1.5-flash` | Names that we are specifically requesting the `gemini-1.5-flash` model |
| `:generateContent` | States the function of the specified model that we would like to invoke |
| `?key=$GOOGLE_API_KEY"` | Query parameter named `key` with a value containing our Google Gemini API key to authenticate our request |

> We will be focusing solely on using the `/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent` endpoint and working with text input and output. Please feel free to follow your curiosity and check out the API documentation to explore other kinds of input you can use to create more complex features. Make sure you have an understanding of the shape of the request and response before jumping right in and test things out in Postman if it helps!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be focusing solely on using the `/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent` endpoint and working with text input and output. Please feel free to follow your curiosity and check out the API documentation to explore other kinds of input you can use to create more complex features. Make sure you have an understanding of the shape of the request and response before jumping right in. Test things out in Postman if it helps!
```

## Text Completion Requests and Responses

A text completion endpoint is used to mimic and then continue a piece of text or conversation between the user and an artificial intelligence. In terms of tools like ChatGPT, a text completion endpoint is what is used to interact with a model to generate more content. The term "text completion" simply refers to the fact that the response will be the next logical text to continue the conversation that is going on. 

### Text Completion Request Body

As mentioned earlier, the `/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent` text completion endpoint takes a POST request at the URL:
`https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta/models/gemini-1.5-flash:generateContent?key=$GOOGLE_API_KEY`

> Like most POST endpoints, a request to the this completions endpoint is not complete itself without a request body. Let's go ahead and write a request body and then discuss its individual parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like most POST endpoints, a request to the text completions endpoint is not complete itself without a request body. Let's go ahead and write a request body and then discuss its individual parts.
```

          }
        ],
        "role": "model"
      },
      "finishReason": "STOP",
      "avgLogprobs": -0.006260416004806757
    }
  ],
  "usageMetadata": {
    "promptTokenCount": 30,
    "candidatesTokenCount": 32,
    "totalTokenCount": 62
  },
  "modelVersion": "gemini-1.5-flash"
}
```

| <div style="min-width:150px;">Piece of Code</div> | Notes |
| ------------- | ----- | 
| `candidates` | A list of potential responses that you can choose from. There are changes around this underway but typically there will only be one choice. |
| `modelVersion` | The model that was used |
| `usageMetadata` | Details on how many tokens were used in the request and response |

You have now written your first request using a history of messages to the Gemini API! 

To read through the API's generated response to our prompt, we will need to: 
1. iterate through the `candidates` list 
2. for each element in `candidates` access the `content` key  
3. access the `parts` key and iterate over the content's `parts` list 
4. for each element in `parts` read the `text` response and handle that string however we would like.  

> This might sound a little tedious, but in our upcoming case study we'll show how we can use Google's `google.generativeai` Python library to make accessing the response text a little easier.

Author: ```suggestion
This might sound a little tedious, but in our upcoming case study we'll show how we can use Google's `[google-generativeai](https://pypi.org/project/google-generativeai/)` Python package to make accessing the response text a little easier.
```
